- [Instructor] How can you counter
integration testing for code
that interacts with an external API?
Imagine you have a component
that's talking to another service
and the service that you're calling
in production environment,
just isn't available to you
in your test environment.
Calling a staged version would be a better option
but often you don't have it offered.
For example,
you're calling a live service like YouTube,
Google, Facebook or Twitter API.
APIs such as these have rate limits.
So when you're running the tests
you could exceed rate limits
and your tests would fail
or you would need to be careful
not to exceed your rate limit
and incur additional expenses.
Then you also need to worry
about storing credentials
somewhere for your test use
and it ends up way too complicated.
Your best option is to mock out the service
that you're calling.
In the Spring world,
we use the rest template
or a WebClient
to interact with external APIs.
You could mock out rest template
by mocking rest template interfaces.
Set a bunch of expectations
by using mock it or for particular URI and entity.
Define what kind of response will get returned
but there is a lot of risk involved
in making a mistake.
You could make a mistake in the URI
or when substituting path variables
or when you're mocking message conversion logic.
A better option is to use rest client test slides
which comes with a pre-configured mock rest service server.
Mock rest service server provides a way
to set up expected requests
that will be performed
through the rest template,
as well as mock responses to send back
thus removing the need
for actual server.
In the same way,
we could take an existing service API
like YouTube, Twitter
we are interacting with,
take their requests and responses
and map those to our mock rest service server
which gives us a higher degree of confidence
that a rest template is making right calls
to external API.
However, usage of a mock rest service server
is limited only to rest template.
If you are using WebClient
things get even more challenging.
This is because the WebClient is a fluent API
where a lot of objects
pause between the calling code and the mock.
As we can see,
we need to provide a different mock object
for each call in the chain.
This is verbose and cumbersome.
It also requires us
to know the implementation details
of how exactly our service uses WebClient
making this a brittle way of testing.
So what should we use?
The Spring team recommends using
OkHTTPS mock web server or WireMock.
In a similar way,
to mock rest service server
you can set up expectations
but unlike mock rest service server
it is exposed or HTTP.
Instead of using some sort of mock
with predetermined responses,
you get to keep the HTTP client underneath
which leads to more complete testing.
Over an actual socket
it's more natural to simulate slow network conditions,
chunked responses
and then in turn to test the impact
with the actual HTTP client
in charge of processing content on the wire.